```latex
\section*{Conclusions}

This study sought to move beyond aggregate, variable-centered analyses of employee responses to Artificial Intelligence by adopting a person-centered approach to understand the heterogeneous nature of AI-induced job security perceptions. The central problem addressed is that monolithic views of the workforce obscure distinct psychological trajectories, leading to potentially misaligned organizational policies. To address this, we analyzed survey data from 2,603 employees in large global enterprises.

Our methodology first employed Latent Class Analysis to empirically identify unobserved subgroups based on employees' current and expected job security. This revealed a typology of three distinct classes: a majority ``Resiliently Optimistic'' cohort (60.9\%), a ``Stagnant Neutral'' group (26.5\%), and a significant ``Anxiously Declining'' minority (12.6\%). Subsequently, we used an Elastic Net regression for feature selection, followed by a multinomial logistic regression, to identify the organizational and psychological factors that predict membership in these classes.

The results demonstrate that an employee's trajectory is not predetermined but is strongly influenced by the organizational environment. Membership in the ``Resiliently Optimistic'' class was most strongly predicted by structural enablers that provide employees with agency and tangible value. These include direct involvement in the AI development process and non-monetary incentives such as peer recognition and learning certifications. Conversely, membership in the ``Anxiously Declining'' class was overwhelmingly driven by deterrents, with fear of job loss and privacy concerns being the most powerful predictors, capable of negating the positive effects of other organizational support mechanisms.

From these findings, we have learned several critical lessons. First, fostering psychological stability amidst technological change hinges less on abstract commitments to training and more on implementing participatory frameworks. Our policy simulation clearly showed that granting employees an active role in the AI transition is a far more potent catalyst for optimism than simply offering passive training programs. Second, the most effective organizational levers are those that decouple the evolution of job tasks from the perceived threat of job displacement by providing clear, tangible benefits and a sense of control. Ultimately, this research provides a data-driven framework for organizations, suggesting that the key to navigating the AI transition successfully is to proactively build an environment of agency, recognition, and empowerment, thereby steering the workforce toward resilience rather than anxiety.
```